---
title: October 2015
---

## Platform Improvements

**Drupal 8 RC2 Released and Available**  
You can now take your [Drupal 8](https://pantheon.io/blog/drupal-8-support-pantheon) sites live on Pantheon. [Create your Drupal 8](https://pantheon.io/d8) site today. 
  
**Terminus 0.9.2 Released**  
Get the [latest version](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/cli/releases). We're steaming ahead to a 1.0 release and can use your help on Github. Manage workflow, WP CLI, and Drush from one CLI tool.

**wp-cli search-replace**    
We improved Pantheon's use of `wp-cli search-replace` on clone/deploy operations and now replace strings in all database tables. Previously, we only replaced strings in tables registered with the $wpdb object. In most cases this was core WordPress tables only, since most plugin authors don't register tables they create with the $wpdb object.

**Drupal 7 Defaults to PHP 5.5**  
All new Drupal 7 sites will automatically default to run on PHP 5.5.

**Organization Renaming**  
You can now rename your own Organization by going to the Settings tab. 

**Terminus Commands Updated**  
We fixed the errors with `drush sql-connect` and `sites aliases --print ` commands. 

**Edge Cache upgraded to Varnish 4**    
We upgraded upgraded Varnish 3 to Varnish 4. This allows us to keep up with operating system and security upgrades. This upgrade includes overall stabilization improvements and we expect 100% backward compatibility.


## Documentation

#### New Docs

[Configuration Workflow for Drupal 8 Sites](/docs/articles/drupal/drupal8/configuration-management/)    
[Creating a services.yml File for Drupal 8](/docs/articles/drupal/drupal8/create-services-yml-file/)  
[Drupal 8 on Pantheon](/docs/articles/drupal/drupal8/)  
[Drupal 8 Performance Configuration](/docs/articles/drupal/drupal8/drupal-8-performance-and-caching-settings/)  
[Extracting Sites from a Drupal Multisite](/docs/articles/drupal/unwind-a-multisite/)  
[Moving Drupal 8 Sites Out of Testing](/docs/articles/drupal/drupal8/moving-out-of-testing/)  
[WordPress Pantheon Cache Plugin Configuration](/docs/articles/wordpress/wordpress-pantheon-cache-plugin-configuration/)
