---
title: August 2016
---
##Platform Improvements

**Advanced Site Configurations Available**  
Nested docroot: Serve sites from a `web` subdirectory, one-level beneath the root of your code repository. Among other use cases, this helps facilitate managing dependencies via Composer.
Protected Web Paths: Specify files or directories that you don’t want to be publicly web-accessible. 
PHP Version: Now your site’s PHP version is managed via [pantheon.yml](https://pantheon.io/docs/pantheon-yml/) so it’s in version control and deployed along with the rest of your code.

**New Hooks for Quicksilver Platform Integration**  
You can now automatically trigger a script after creating a site or Multidev. Check out slack_notifcation so all your team members know when a new Multidev or site is created. View all example [Quicksilver scripts](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/quicksilver-examples/) on GitHub.

**PHP 5.6/7.0 Released**  
We now support PHP 5.6 and 7.0. See our documentation to learn how to [upgrade your PHP version](https://pantheon.io/docs/php-versions/).

**Docs Site Updated**  
We redesigned the [Docs](https://pantheon.io/docs/) home page. Check it out and let us know what you think! 


## Documentation

#### New Articles/Guides

[Migrate Sites to Pantheon: Troubleshooting](/docs/migrate-troubleshooting/)  
[Migrating Sites to Pantheon: Preserve Existing Git History](/docs/migrate-preserve-history/)  
[Using Lockr to Secure and Manage API and Encryption Keys with WordPress and Drupal](/docs/guides/lockr/)  
[Using Priority Enterprise Support](/docs/priority-enterprise-support/)
[]()
