---
title: October 2015
changelog: true
---

## Platform Improvements

### Drupal 8 RC2 Released and Available
You can now take your [Drupal 8](https://pantheon.io/blog/drupal-8-support-pantheon) sites live on Pantheon. [Create your Drupal 8](https://pantheon.io/d8) site today.

### Terminus 0.9.2 Released
Get the [latest version](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/cli/releases). We're steaming ahead to a 1.0 release and can use your help on GitHub. Manage workflow, WP CLI, and Drush from one CLI tool.

### wp-cli search-replace
We improved Pantheon's use of `wp-cli search-replace` on clone/deploy operations and now replace strings in all database tables. Previously, we only replaced strings in tables registered with the $wpdb object. In most cases this was core WordPress tables only, since most plugin authors don't register tables they create with the $wpdb object.

### Drupal 7 Defaults to PHP 5.5
All new Drupal 7 sites will automatically default to run on PHP 5.5.

### Organization Renaming
You can now rename your own Organization by going to the Settings tab.

### Terminus Commands Updated
We fixed the errors with `drush sql-connect` and `sites aliases --print ` commands.

### Edge Cache upgraded to Varnish 4
We upgraded upgraded Varnish 3 to Varnish 4. This allows us to keep up with operating system and security upgrades. This upgrade includes overall stabilization improvements and we expect 100% backward compatibility.


## Documentation

### New Docs

[Configuration Workflow for Drupal 9 Sites](/drupal-9-configuration-management)
[Creating a services.yml File for Drupal 9](/services-yml)
[Drupal 9 Performance Configuration](/drupal-9-cache)
[Extracting Sites from a Drupal Multisite](/unwind-drupal-multisite)
[WordPress Pantheon Cache Plugin Configuration](/wordpress-cache-plugin)
