---
title: May 2020
changelog: true
description: May 2020 Pantheon changelog updates.
reviewed: "2020-05-08"
---

## Platform Improvements

### Early Access to Drupal 9 With Integrated Composer

You don’t have to wait until June to give Drupal 9 a whirl! Pantheon is offering early access to test out Pantheon’s new Integrated Composer support. Visit the [Community Forum](https://discuss.pantheon.io/t/early-access-to-drupal-9-0-with-integrated-composer/1110) for details. Why worry about running `composer install` when our platform can do that for you as part of a build step.

<!-- excerpt -->

### Drupal 8.8.5 

Drupal 8.8.5 is now available on the Pantheon platform. Detailed information on applying and debugging core updates can be found in the [Core Updates documentation](/core-updates). For more information, see the [Drupal 8.8.5 release notes](https://www.drupal.org/project/drupal/releases/8.8.5).

### WordPress 5.4.1

WordPress 5.4.1 is now available on the Pantheon platform to [apply as a 1-click update](/core-updates) on Pantheon site dashboards. 
For more information, see the [WordPress 5.4.1 release notes](https://wordpress.org/news/2020/04/wordpress-5-4-1/) .

### Localdev 0.10.0

[Localdev 0.10.x](/localdev) has been released. Localdev supports [Multidev](/multidev) as of Localdev 0.9.3. The newest version includes numerous bug fixes and improvements. See the [Localdev changelog](/localdev#changelog) for more information.

### Multidev Cloud Environments Offer

We’ve made [Multidev](/multidev)—our powerful tool for remote development—free of charge through July 1st. Multidev allows development teams to work asynchronously on projects in the cloud, unlocking collaboration, and increased productivity. To get started, visit the Multidev tab in your [Pantheon dashboard](https://dashboard.pantheon.io/sites/).

## Documentation

### Pantheon Documentation Site Improvements

Pantheon Documentation “404 Not Found” page now features built-in search and suggested docs, to help users find what they need more quickly.

### Resources to Navigate COVID-19

To provide our customers, partners and the general public with a central resource to track our response to the developing COVID-19 pandemic, we’ve launched [Resources to Navigate COVID-19](https://pantheon.io/resources-navigate-covid-19?docs). The page includes announcements, resources, details on what we’re doing, and an offer to organizations on the front line of the COVID-19 pandemic.