---
title: April 2020
changelog: true
description: April 2020 Pantheon changelog updates.
reviewed: "2020-04-01"
---

To provide our customers, partners and the general public with a central resource to track our response to the developing COVID-19 pandemic, we’ve launched [Resources to Navigate COVID-19](https://pantheon.io/resources-navigate-covid-19?docs). The page includes announcements, resources, details on what we’re doing, and an offer to organizations on the front line of the COVID-19 pandemic.

## Platform Improvements

### WP-CLI 2.4.0

WP-CLI has been upgraded from version 1.x to version 2.4.0 platform-wide.  For more information, see the [WP-CLI release notes](https://make.wordpress.org/cli/2019/11/12/wp-cli-v2-4-0-release-notes/).

<!-- excerpt -->

### New Relic Agent 9.7.0.258

The New Relic agent has been upgraded from version 9.2.0.247 to version 9.7.0.258 platform-wide. This upgrade fixes a potential segfault with PHP 7.3. For more information, see the [New Relic Agent release notes](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/php-release-notes/php-agent-970258).

### Drupal 8.8.4 

Drupal 8.8.4 is now available platform-wide. Detailed information on applying and debugging core updates can be found in the [Core Updates documentation](/core-updates). For more information, see the [Drupal 8.8.4 release notes](https://www.drupal.org/project/drupal/releases/8.8.4). 

### Localdev 0.9.3

[Localdev 0.9.3](/guides/localdev) has been released, including support for Docker Desktop, multidev environments, and more. For more information, see the [Localdev documentation](/guides/localdev).

## Documentation

### [External Libraries for Drupal](/external-libraries)

Revised and updated instructions for multiple Drupal versions.

### [Quicksilver Platform Hooks](/quicksilver)

Expanded section on managing protected data.

### [Git FAQ](/git-faq)

New section created on removing sub-modules from your code base.

### [Symlinks and Assumed Write Access](/symlinks-assumed-write-access)

Revised and updated instructions on solutions for non-standard file paths.
