---
title: June 2020
changelog: true
description: Jue 2020 Pantheon changelog updates.
reviewed: "2020-05-31"
---

## Platform Improvements

### Go Live Enhancements

You now always have the capability to provision HTTPS before going live. DNS challenges are now also shown on the dashboard, which were previously only available via Terminus. For more see our [Launch Essentials Guide](/guides/launch).

### Drupal 9.0

Drupal 9.0.0 is coming soon! If you want to try out Drupal 9 on Pantheon now, check out our [Early Access doc](/drupal-9) where we have instructions for testing with Build Tools or Integrated Composer.

<!-- excerpt -->

### Localdev 0.10.0

[Localdev 0.10.0](/guides/localdev/changelog) has been released, including a new log and activity viewer, UX improvements, and bug fixes. For more information, see the [Localdev documentation](/guides/localdev).

### Global CDN

Global CDN now blocks requests identified as being performed by AspiegelBot (aka PetalBot) when a [query string](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Query_string) is present. This platform-wide change is intended to guard against resource exhaustion and related site downtime. Going forward these requests will result in a 403 and will not count as site traffic for Pages Served and Visits. For more information see the Traffic Limits and Overages documentation section on [Bots and Crawlers](/traffic-limits#bots-and-crawlers).

Capacity Expansion: Auckland, New Zealand (AKL).

### Drupal 8.8.6

Drupal 8.8.6 is now available on the Pantheon platform. Detailed information on applying and debugging core updates can be found in the [Core Updates documentation](/core-updates). For more information, see the [Drupal 8.8.6 release notes](https://www.drupal.org/project/drupal/releases/8.8.6).

### Drupal 7.70

Drupal 7.70 is now available on the Pantheon platform. Detailed information on applying and debugging core updates can be found in the [Core Updates documentation](/core-updates). For more information, see the [Drupal 7.70 release notes](https://www.drupal.org/project/drupal/releases/7.70).

## Documentation

- [Drupal 9 Early Access](/drupal-9) -  Learn how to try out Drupal 9 on Pantheon now.
- [Managed Updates](/guides/professional-services/managed-updates) - Confidently leverage open source, focus resources on growth, and secure your baseline with fully managed CMS updates.
- [Onboarding Services](/guides/professional-services/onboarding) - Pantheon Onboarding Managers are your WebOps experts, to help facilitate a successful launch.

### Resources to Navigate COVID-19

To provide our customers, partners and the general public with a central resource to track our response to the developing COVID-19 pandemic, we’ve launched [Resources to Navigate COVID-19](https://pantheon.io/resources-navigate-covid-19?docs). This page includes announcements, resources, details on what we’re doing, and an offer to organizations on the front line of the COVID-19 pandemic.
