---
title: January 2022 Changelog
changelog: true
description: January 2022 Pantheon changelog
reviewed: "2022-01-01"
---

## Platform Improvements

### Terminus

[Terminus 3.0](/terminus/terminus-3-0) is now available. Use Terminus to perform any task you might do in the Pantheon Dashboard, including actions via Drush and WP-CLI. In addition, patch releases for [Terminus 3](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/terminus/releases/tag/3.0.3) and [Terminus 2](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/terminus/releases/tag/2.6.5) have also been released.  

## New and Updated Features

### Drupal 9

[Drupal 9](/drupal-9) is in General Availability! It is available on Pantheon to all new sites, and is available as an upgrade path from Drupal 8 with Integrated Composer. For more information, refer to the [documentation](/drupal-9-migration).

### Legacy Edge Shutdown Update

As part of our end-of-life plan to retire the Legacy Edge, CNAMEs `edge.live.getpantheon.com` and `styx-01.pantheon.io` now point to Global CDN.  This change allows for the transition of sites to Global CDN with minimal interruption. Permanent shutdown happens on February 1, 2022.

### New and Improved Workspace Switcher

The usability of Workspace Switcher in the New Dashboard has been improved. The switcher in the Primary Global Navigation is now optimized for large accounts and will allow users to search for a Workspace directly in the New Dashboard. You can view up to 10 Workspaces connected to your account, from the list in the Primary Global Navigation. 

### One-Click Database and PHP Upgrades

Customers can now upgrade their site database and PHP by using the One-Click Upstream Update feature in the Site Dashboard or the command `Terminus upstream:updates:apply`. Pantheon makes it simple to keep your site database secure and performant. Sites using Custom Upstreams can easily upgrade to supported database versions by configuring the site's `pantheon.yml`.

## Documentation

[Convert a Custom Upstream to Integrated Composer](/guides/composer-convert) - Learn how to convert a non-Composer-managed Drupal 8 site to Integrated Composer while on Drupal 8. The process is similar to the Upgrade Pantheon Drupal 8 Sites to Drupal 9 With Integrated Composer guide, except that you will stay on Drupal 8 with some special considerations for Custom Upstreams, and can defer the Drupal 9 upgrade to later. Refer to the [documentation](/guides/composer-convert#overview) for more information.
