---
title: December 2023 Changelog
changelog: true
description: December 2023 Pantheon changelog
reviewed: "2023-12-01"
---
## Feature and Product Release Updates
### Delete Front-End Sites Multidevs Directly From Dashboard for Streamlined Management
We've enhanced your site management experience by enabling the ability to delete Multidevs directly from your Front-End Sites dashboard. This upgrade simplifies project organization, providing you with a seamless process to remove unnecessary Multidevs.

This intuitive addition streamlines site management, offering a hassle-free solution to keep your projects organized and optimized. Find detailed instructions [here](/guides/decoupled/overview/fes-multidev#delete-a-multidev-environment).

### Elevated Experience With Front-End Sites Drupal Starter Kit
The Pantheon Drupal Starter Kit for Front-End Sites has undergone significant improvements.
* **Setup experience**: The setup process is now more user-friendly and guided for a seamless experience.
* **Health check script**: The newly introduced health check script alerts you to known configuration issues before a build fails.
* **Front-End Sites settings**: Effortlessly navigate through the Settings page, simplifying the testing of your preview endpoint, and allowing convenient copying of environment variables for use in the Front-End Sites Dashboard.

Curious about creating a new Drupal project with these enhancements? Find detailed instructions [here](https://decoupledkit.pantheon.io/docs/backend-starters/decoupled-drupal/creating-a-new-project).

For further insights and discussions on similar sites, join the [#front-end-frameworks](https://pantheon-community.slack.com/archives/C01DXGMFZFB) Slack channel.
## Platform Updates

### Upgraded Security Measures for Uninterrupted WebOps Experience
We're thrilled to announce an impactful upgrade to Pantheon's security infrastructure, reinforcing our commitment to safeguarding your websites. In response to the escalating sophistication of distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks, we've implemented innovative solutions to fortify our defenses. Particularly, we've addressed a surge in Layer 7 attacks targeting content management systems, ensuring resilience even without our Advanced Global CDN's Web Application Firewall (WAF).

**Key benefits:**
* **Advanced DDoS protection**: Our engineers have proactively countered Layer 7 attacks, mitigating risks posed by inauthentic traffic targeting web content management systems.
* **Rate limiting capabilities**: We've introduced rate limiting capabilities within our Global CDN, curbing abusive traffic effectively. This ensures a stable online presence, even during large-scale attacks, preventing wider stability issues.

For more in-depth insights into the measures we've taken and the value they bring to your Pantheon experience, delve into the [full blog post](https://pantheon.io/blog/pantheon-improves-protection-malicious-traffic). Your website's security and stability are our top priorities, and this enhancement is another step in our ongoing commitment to delivering a robust WebOps platform.
### WordPress 6.4.2 Now Available for Enhanced Security
In response to a critical security vulnerability, [WordPress 6.4.2](https://wordpress.org/news/2023/12/wordpress-6-4-2-maintenance-security-release/) was released on December 6, 2023. To ensure the safety of your site, Pantheon strongly advises an immediate upgrade. Prioritize your site's security – upgrade now!

### Optimized Monitoring for High-Volume Directories
Introducing proactive alerts tailored for directories with substantial file counts, which could impact performance or accessibility. Stay informed with timely notifications delivered [directly to your dashboard](/guides/filesystem/large-files/#alerts) and via email when file counts reach 50,000 and 100,000. This feature empowers you to efficiently manage your file system and address potential issues promptly.
