---
title: July 2023 Changelog
changelog: true
description: July 2023 Pantheon changelog
reviewed: "2023-07-01"
---

## Platform Updates

### Drupal 7.98

[Drupal 7.98](https://www.drupal.org/project/drupal/releases/7.98) is available on the Pantheon platform. Users may update their sites immediately. Detailed information on applying and debugging core updates can be found in the [Core Updates documentation](/core-updates).

### WP-CLI 2.8.1

[WP-CLI 2.8.1](https://make.wordpress.org/cli/2023/06/05/wp-cli-v2-8-1-release-notes/) is now live on the platform.

### Deprecation of Obsolete TLS 1.2 Cipher Suites

In Pantheon's continual efforts to stay up to date with modern web security standards, Pantheon is removing support for a certain set of cipher suites for TLS 1.2. By removing support for specific TLS 1.2 ciphers, Pantheon is enhancing overall platform security. This change ensures that the websites hosted on Pantheon will only use stronger and more secure encryption protocols, which helps protect sensitive information transmitted between users and the websites.

The following obsolete TLS 1.2 ciphers have known vulnerabilities and have been removed:

- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384
- TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA
- TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
- TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

Pantheon has proactively identified and communicated with affected customers. No action is required at this time, but if you have any questions/concerns, please feel free to reach out to your Account Team at Pantheon or to [Pantheon Support](/guides/support/contact-support/) via a ticket or chat.

## Feature and Product Release Updates

### Integrated Composer

Pantheon customers can now re-run [Integrated Composer](/guides/integrated-composer) builds via Terminus - without creating a new commit. Previously, pushing a new commit to the Dashboard was the only way to trigger a build. Occasionally site developers experience failed builds for external reasons (external repo issue, broken key, etc.). This update brings even greater functionality and flexibility to Integrated Composer.

## Community

Gain access to a knowledge-sharing community of WebOps thought leaders who are embracing the tools and best practices of WebOps to create magic on the internet, while unlocking limited-edition swag & other amazing perks for completing Pantheon Missions.

Join the mew [Pantheon Community Hub](https://community.pantheon.io/) today to start earning!
