---
title: WP-CLI v2.11.0 release now available on Pantheon
published_date: "2024-09-10"
categories: [wordpress]
---

We're thrilled to announce the availability of WP-CLI v2.11.0 on the Pantheon platform.

WP-CLI is easily accessible for any WordPress site on Pantheon through our CLI, [Terminus](/terminus), allowing you to manage your WordPress installations efficiently with WP-CLI’s powerful commands at your fingertips.

### Highlights 

* **New site generator command:**
This new command has been added to create multiple sites programmatically in a multisite installation. This is useful for testing or development purposes.

* **GitHub release installation support:**
The extension command now supports installing plugins and themes directly from GitHub releases.

* **Minor and patch limitations for theme updates:**
Themes can now be updated only to their latest minor or patch releases, similar to plugins.

* **New "user exists" command:**
A new `wp user exists` command allows for quick checks on whether a user exists in the WordPress database.

* **Option to delete unknown image sizes:**
The new `--delete-unknown` flag added to `wp media regenerate` is especially helpful for site owners dealing with [highly populated media directories](/release-notes/2024/08/prevent-filesystem-overload).

* **Bug fixes:**
WP-CLI 2.11.0 includes numerous bug fixes, with over 250 pull requests merged, addressing both minor and significant issues.

For a deeper dive into all the changes, we encourage you to explore the [detailed WP-CLI changelog](https://make.wordpress.org/cli/2024/08/08/wp-cli-v2-11-0-release-notes).
