---
title: WP-CLI v2.12.0 release now available on Pantheon
published_date: "2025-06-18"
categories: [wordpress]
---

We have updated the version of WP-CLI on the Pantheon platform to v2.12.0. Sites will automatically update to this version over the next 48 hours.

WP-CLI is easily accessible for any WordPress site on Pantheon through our CLI, [Terminus](/terminus), allowing you to manage your WordPress installations efficiently with powerful commands at your fingertips.

### Highlights

* **Post lists can now handle complex query flags:** When using `post list`, you can now use JSON notation to provide complex query arguments to the `--tax_query`, `--meta_query` and `--post_date` fields.
* **Post meta can be forced to only return a single value:** The `post meta get` command now has a `--single` flag defaulting to `true` which can be negated with `--no-single`. This flag tells WordPress whether to only return a single value or all existing values for a given key.
* **Exclude files on core checksum verification:** When running a `core checksum` verification, you can exclude one or more files from the checksum verification with the new `--exclude=<files>` flag.
* **Respect requires and requires_php tags for plugins and themes:** The `plugin` and `theme` commands now understand and respect the `requires` and `requires_php` header tags when trying to install or update extensions. A new state `unavailable` has been introduced to denote the updates that are newer than your current installation but for which your site does not fulfill the requirements.
* **PHP 8.4 Compatibility:** WP-CLI is now fully compatible with PHP 8.4. Pantheon is actively working to add PHP 8.4 support on the platform.
* **Bug Fixes:** WP-CLI 2.12.0 includes numerous bug fixes, with over 382 pull requests merged, addressing both minor and significant issues.

Two fixes related to `wp-config.php` in this release are specifically driven by needs of the Pantheon platform. `wp config has` (to check the existence of a variable or constant in wp-config) previously failed in read-only filesystems like Pantheon's `test` and `live` environments. PHP warnings or notices in `wp-config.php` also no longer surface twice when running `wp config` commands.

Pantheon Senior Software Engineer Phil Tyler contributed to this latest WP-CLI release.

For a deeper dive into all the changes, we encourage you to explore the [detailed WP-CLI changelog](https://make.wordpress.org/cli/2025/05/07/wp-cli-v2-12-0-release-notes/).
