---
title: Composer 2.8.3 now available
published_date: "2025-01-29"
categories: [infrastructure,tools-apis]
---

Composer 2.8.3 is now used in both [application containers](/application-containers) and [Integrated Composer](/guides/integrated-composer) environments.

### Automatic rollout - No action required

Composer 2.8.3 will roll out automatically. No action required from you during this process.

### Breaking changes

Developers should be aware of a potentially breaking change introduced in [2.8.0](https://github.com/composer/composer/releases/tag/2.8.0). The fallback behavior from `https_proxy` to `http_proxy` has been removed, as previously warned in [2.7.3](https://github.com/composer/composer/releases/tag/2.7.3). If your configurations depend on this behavior, update them to avoid connectivity issues.

### Highlights

Composer 2.8.3 introduces a range of improvements and updates made between versions 2.7.7 and 2.8.3, including:

* **`--patch-only` flag for updates**: Limit updates to patch versions with this new flag for the `update` command.
* **Improved interactive package updates**: Enhanced package display makes interactive updates more intuitive.
* **JSON schema validation**: New validation ensures integrity for `composer.lock` files.
* **PHP 8.4 compatibility**: Compatibility updates for the latest PHP version.
* **Bug fixes**: Resolved issues with provider suggestions and lock file schemas.

View an overview of the changes made between [2.7.7 and 2.8.3 by comparing the tags](https://github.com/composer/composer/compare/2.7.7...2.8.3) or explore the highlights on [Composer's Releases page](https://github.com/composer/composer/releases).

### Notes

* Composer commands can be executed on Pantheon via the [Terminus Composer plugin](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/terminus-composer-plugin).
* For operations that modify version-controlled code (like adding a module via `composer require` which will change `composer.json` and `composer.lock`), you must run such commands in Dev or Multidev environments where version controlled files are writable. Such files are not writeable in Test and Live environments.
* To learn more about Composer on Pantheon, visit our guide on [Integrated Composer](/guides/integrated-composer).
