---
title: Integrated Composer
subtitle: Support and FAQs
description: Learn about support for Integrated Composer.
tags: [composer, workflow]
contributors: [ari, edwardangert]
reviewed: "2024-10-15"
showtoc: true
permalink: docs/guides/integrated-composer/ic-support
contenttype: [guide]
innav: [false]
categories: [dependencies]
cms: [drupal, wordpress]
audience: [development]
product: [composer]
integration: [--]
---

This section provides information on support for Integrated Composer.

## Pantheon Supports Composer 2

The version of Composer on the platform is Composer 2.

Some packages are not compatible with Composer 2. If you encounter a build error that instructs you to contact [Support](/guides/support/contact-support), validate the package version's compatibility locally first, and check Drupal's [Preparing your site for Composer 2](https://www.drupal.org/docs/develop/using-composer/preparing-your-site-for-composer-2#s-composer-plugins) documentation for packages that have already been identified.

## Pantheon's Scope of Support for Composer

Pantheon supports the version of Composer integrated into the Pantheon platform and available for use with all Drupal 8+ and WordPress sites. Pantheon’s support for Composer is limited to the application level, and any Composer scripts or modifications made with a Composer script are outside the [Pantheon Scope of Support](/guides/support/).

## Report an Issue

If you discover any issue for either framework, create an issue in the respective GitHub repo for our team to review and address: 
* [Drupal Composer Managed issue queue](https://github.com/pantheon-upstreams/drupal-composer-managed/issues)
* [WordPress Composer Managed issue queue](https://github.com/pantheon-upstreams/wordpress-composer-managed/issues)

Visit [our community Slack](https://pantheon-community.slack.com/archives/CT8MC5Y0K) (you can sign up for the [Pantheon Slack channel here](https://slackin.pantheon.io/) if you don't already have an account).

## FAQs

This section provides answers to frequently asked Integrated Composer questions.


### What Composer commands does Pantheon run?

All Composer commands are available through the **Commit Log** in the Site Dashboard's development environment.

### Can I view live logs?

Composer build logs are only available after the task or action completes (or fails).

### How do I view Composer's changes?

Use `git diff` to view changes, excluding `composer.lock`:

```bash{promptUser: user}
git diff d94d1a1179 -- . ':(exclude)composer.lock'
```

Try [composer-lock-diff](https://github.com/davidrjonas/composer-lock-diff) to see what packages have changed after `composer update`.

### Can I use a Composer GUI?

Pantheon does not offer support for Composer GUIs or any conflicts that might be caused by one.

### On what environments does the require-dev section of composer.json get loaded?

The `require-dev` section of the `composer.json` file is loaded on the Dev and Multidev environments. Every time Integrated Composer does a build, it creates a Dev artifact and a Live artifact. When you deploy from Dev to Test, Integrated Composer deploys the Live artifact rather than the Dev artifact.

### Why are contrib modules placed in /modules/composer instead of /modules/contrib?

Contrib modules added by Integrated Composer from the now deprecated [Drupal Project](https://github.com/pantheon-upstreams/drupal-project/blob/master/composer.json#L29) upstream are placed in the `/modules/composer` directory in case a site already has non-Composer-managed modules in the standard `/modules/contrib` directory. If your site does not fall into this category, it is safe to rename the `composer` directory back to the standard `contrib` and alter the installer path to match.

We recommend upgrading to the [Drupal Composer Managed Project](https://github.com/pantheon-upstreams/drupal-composer-managed/blob/main/composer.json#L50), which installs modules to the standard `contrib` directory. This `/modules/contrib` directory is added by default to the `.gitignore` file which tells Git to ignore files generated by Composer. You can manually add packages and make commits up to the repository by modifying the `.gitignore` file with the following exception:

```bash
!/web/modules/contrib/my-non-composer-module
```

<Alert title="Note"  type="info" >

All modules will be overwritten by Integrated Composer if you don't add the exception code above. Don't manually add modules with the `.gitignore` exception if they are included in your `composer.json` file, as this can create a conflict that causes Integrated Composer to fail.

</Alert>

### Can I hotfix an Integrated Composer site?

No. Integrated Composer is not compatible with the [hotfix](/guides/git/hotfixes) workflow.
