---
title: Integrated Composer
subtitle: Integrated Composer FAQ
description: Get answers to your Integrated Composer questions.
tags: [composer, workflow]
categories: [get-started]
contributors: [ari, edwardangert]
reviewed: "2022-04-28"
layout: guide
showtoc: true
permalink: docs/guides/integrated-composer/ic-faq
anchorid: ic-faq
---

This section provides answers to frequently asked Integrated Composer questions.


### What Composer commands does Pantheon run?

All Composer commands are available through the **Commit Log** in the Site Dashboard's development environment.

### Can I view live logs?

Composer build logs are only available after the task or action completes (or fails).

### How do I view Composer's changes?

Use `git diff` to view changes, excluding `composer.lock`:

```bash{promptUser: user}
git diff d94d1a1179 -- . ':(exclude)composer.lock'
```

Try [composer-lock-diff](https://github.com/davidrjonas/composer-lock-diff) to see what packages have changed after `composer update`.

### Can I use a Composer GUI?

Pantheon does not offer support for Composer GUIs or any conflicts that might be caused by one.

### On what environments does the require-dev section of composer.json get loaded?

On the dev and multidev environments. Every time Integrated Composer does a build, it creates a dev artifact and live artifact. When you deploy from dev to test, Integrated Composer deploys the live artifact rather than the dev artifact.

### Why are contrib modules placed in /modules/composer instead of /modules/contrib?

Contrib modules added by Integrated Composer from the now deprecated [Drupal Project](https://github.com/pantheon-upstreams/drupal-project/blob/master/composer.json#L29) upstream are placed in the `/modules/composer` directory in case a site already has non-Composer-managed modules in the standard `/modules/contrib` directory. If your site does not fall into this category, it is safe to rename the `composer` directory back to the standard `contrib` and alter the installer path to match.

We recommend upgrading to the [Drupal Composer Managed Project](https://github.com/pantheon-upstreams/drupal-composer-managed/blob/main/composer.json#L50), which installs modules to the standard `contrib` directory. This `/modules/contrib` directory is added by default to the `.gitignore` file which tells Git to ignore files generated by Composer. You can manually add packages and make commits up to the repository by modifying the `.gitignore` file with the following exception:

```bash
!/web/modules/contrib/my-non-composer-module
```

<Alert title="Note"  type="info" >

All modules will be overwritten by Integrated Composer if you don't add the exception code above. Don't manually add modules with the `.gitignore` exception if they are included in your `composer.json` file, as this can create a conflict that causes Integrated Composer to fail.

</Alert>

### What features are planned for Integrated Composer on Pantheon?

Pantheon's developers are working hard to make the Integrated Composer experience on Pantheon better.

Features that are still in development:

- [Integrated Composer](/guides/integrated-composer) improvements

- [Build Tools](/guides/build-tools)

## More Resources

- [Integrated Composer Troubleshooting](/guides/integrated-composer/ic-troubleshooting)

- [Add Contrib and Custom Code in Drupal 9](/guides/drupal-9-hosted-createcustom/contrib-custom)
