---
title: Managing Drush Versions on Pantheon
description: Learn about Pantheon's default Drush version and how to implement site-local usage.
tags: [devdrush, services, pantheonyml]
categories: [drupal]
---
By default, Pantheon runs Drush 8.x on newly created Drupal sites and 5.x on sites created prior to November 4, 2015. When running Drush locally, we highly recommend running Drush version 8.x, although 7.x is also supported. Alias files generated by Pantheon are not compatible with 6.x; however, you can execute commands locally with this version by including the `--strict=0` option.

## Terminus Drush and Local Drush
[Terminus](/docs/terminus/) makes remote Drush calls on sites without using a local installation, eliminating compatibility issues between local and remote installs. For more information, see our guide on [Managing Drupal Sites with Terminus and Drush](/docs/guides/terminus-drupal-site-management/).

## Verify Current Drush Version
Verify the current version of Drush running remotely on Pantheon using [Terminus](/docs/terminus):
```bash
terminus drush <site>.<env> -- status | grep "Drush version"
```

## Configure Drush Version
You can change a site's Drush version via the [pantheon.yml file](/docs/pantheon-yml):
```yaml
api_version: 1

drush_version: 8
```
Now your site’s Drush version is managed via `pantheon.yml`, so it’s in version control and deployed along with the rest of your code.

### Available Drush Versions
Available Drush versions are 5, 7, and 8.

#### PHP Requirements

<table class="table  table-bordered table-responsive">
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th>Drush Version</th>
        <th>Minimum PHP Version</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>Drush 5</td>
        <td>PHP 5.2.0+</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Drush 7</td>
        <td>PHP 5.3.0+</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Drush 8</td>
        <td>PHP 5.4.5+</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

See our guide on [Upgrading PHP Versions](/docs/php-versions/).

### Troubleshooting

Sometimes even after updating the drush version in `pantheon.yml`, the correct version of drush is not called. This is usually caused by an outdated configuration file, `policy.drush.inc`, in your local `~/.drush` directory, overriding `pantheon.yml`. Remove the file, or comment out its contents, to resolve.

## Site-local Drush Usage
If you need to specify a minor version or a version not available on the platform (such as Drush 9), you can add a site-local installation of Drush to your repository. This will redispatch Pantheon's platform Drush to the site-local installation. Do not select any major version of Drush lower than 8.

For more information, see [Avoiding “Dependency Hell” with Site-Local Drush](https://pantheon.io/blog/avoiding-dependency-hell-site-local-drush){.external}.

## See Also
- [Avoiding “Dependency Hell” with Site-Local Drush (Blog)](https://pantheon.io/blog/avoiding-dependency-hell-site-local-drush)
- [Fix Up Drush Site Aliases with a Policy File (Blog)](https://pantheon.io/blog/fix-drush-site-aliases-policy-file)
- [Expand Your Use of Drush on Pantheon with More Commands (Blog)](https://pantheon.io/blog/expand-use-drush-pantheon-more-commands)
- [Drupal Drush Command-Line Utility](/docs/drush)
- [The pantheon.yml Configuration File](/docs/pantheon-yml)
