---
title: Migrate Sites to Pantheon: From Your Local Machine
description: Learn how to migrate locally hosted Drupal or WordPress site to Pantheon
tags: [migrate, local]
categories: []
---

This page discusses sites developed from your local machine, ready to deploy on Pantheon.

We recommend using [Kalabox](/docs/kalabox) because of its integrated features to the platform. For large teams/sites, we recommend using [Multidev](/docs/multidev) instead of local development.
Read more on what will only work for [Local Development](/docs/local-development/)

If your site is already existing or hosted through a different provider, you can use the [Guided Migration method](/docs/migrate). For cases where the guided migration will not work, follow the [manual migration method](/docs/migrate-manual).


## Before you Begin

The Pantheon platform might have several differences on how your local machine works.
To check what are the possible components, read our documentation page about [Platform Considerations](/docs/platform-considerations/).

### Platform versus Local Configuration

Review and compare Pantheon and your local configuration in terms of [Resources](/docs/platform-resources/) or some [Timeouts configuration](/docs/timeouts) for differences.

Most are standard and not configurable and it is best to sync settings to your local machine.

### Create a new site

You need to create a new site first in order to have a server available to upload your code, database and files. Follow our guide on how to [Create Sites](/docs/create-sites/).
Make sure you have selected the correct application upstream be it either WordPress, Drupal 7 or Drupal 8.

If you haven't done so, you may follow the steps for create a new site through *Step 1* in the next section.

## Create a New Pantheon Site

From your Pantheon Account Dashboard:

1. Choose **Migrate Existing Site**.
2. Enter your current website URL.
3. Choose your site type: Drupal 7, Drupal 8, WordPress, or a [Custom Upstream](/docs/custom-upstream/).
4. Click **Continue**.
5. Name your new Pantheon site.
6. Select an organization for the site (optional).
7. Click **Create Site**.
..a **WordPress**: Click **Migrate Manually** and select **Yes** in the confirmation box.
..b **Drupal**: Find the line "If your site archive is larger than 500MB it must be **manually migrated**." Click the link, then select **Yes** in the confirmation box.

### Drupal: Drush Import

One of the easiest ways to move an existing Drupal site to Pantheon is to import a [Drush archive file](https://drushcommands.com/drush-8x/core/archive-dump/) using our [Terminus command-line interface](/docs/terminus/). This automates the packaging of the existing installation, improving the chances of success.

Check out the [Drush Import](/docs/drush-import/)

### WordPress: All-in-One Import

There are a number of plugins available to export a full archive of your WordPress site (code, database, files) and import it. One example is [All-in-One WP Migration](https://wordpress.org/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration/) plugin.

To make this work, you need to have the plugin working on both of your sites. This means you have to complete the new WordPress site installation in Pantheon until you are able to install the plugin. Once it is activated, there is new Dashboard menu item to Export or Import an archive file (`.wpress`) generated by this plugin.

Review and follow the [video tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BpWxCeUWBOk) on how to perform this.

### Terminus: Using an archive file

You can import a WordPress or Drupal site archive via URL (within file size limits) by uploading the archive to a web-accessible location (like DropBox or Google Drive), and using [Terminus](/docs/terminus):

```bash
terminus site:import <site-name> <url>
```


## Import your Code

Your **code** is all custom and contributed modules or plugins, themes, and libraries. Code **does not** include files not under version control, like images uploaded to `sites/default/files` or `wp-content/uploads`.

Please be sure to check the contents of the codebase for existing `.gitignore` files.  To be compatible with the platform, using the Pantheon version is advised.  Otherwise, attempts to import files to restricted paths could break the import process.

See the platform-provided verions for [Wordpress](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/WordPress/blob/master/.gitignore), [Drupal 7](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/drops-7/blob/master/.gitignore), and [Drupal 8](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/drops-8).

You can use either SFTP or Git to import your code. If you'd like to retain existing Git History, then please see [Migrating Sites to Pantheon: Preserve Existing Git History](/docs/migrate-preserve-history).

### Import Code via SFTP
Find the **Connection Info** from the Dev environment and use an SFTP client to add your code. You'll want to only add plugins, modules, and themes and not overwrite WordPress or Drupal core. For more information, see [Developing on Pantheon Directly with SFTP Mode](/docs/sftp/).

### Import Code via Git
Clone the Pantheon site repository and copy your site's plugins, modules and themes, commit, and push. Do not overwrite WordPress or Drupal core. For more information, see [Starting with Git](/docs/git/).

If you'd like to retain existing Git History, see [Migrating Sites to Pantheon: Preserve Existing Git History](/docs/migrate-preserve-history).


## Add Database

**Database** - a single `.sql` dump that contains the content and active state of the site's configurations.

Your site's database should already be backed up into a single `.sql` dump that contains the content and active state of the site's configuration. If you haven't done so already, we recommend that you remove data from cache tables to make the `.sql` file smaller, which helps ensure a quick and successful import. If you're using WP-CLI, you can flush the cache easily with `wp cache flush` before creating the dump file.

You can use either the Pantheon Dashboard or a MySQL client to add your site's database.

If your `.sql` file is less than 500MB, you can use the Import tool on the Workflow tab to import the database from a URL. If it is less than 100MB, you can upload the file directly. Importing an `.sql` file larger than 500MB require the use of the command line:

### Import Database using the Pantheon Dashboard

1. Select the **Dev** environment.
2. Select **Database / Files**.
3. Click **Import**.
4. In the **MySQL database** field, paste the URL of the `sql` file or upload a local `sql` file, and press **Import**.

### Import Database using a MySQL Client

The following instructions are for the command line MySQL client, but you can also use a GUI client like Sequel Pro or Navicat. For more information, see [Accessing MySQL Databases](/docs/mysql-access/).

1. From the Dev environment on the Pantheon Site Dashboard, click **Connection Info** and copy the Database connection string. It will look similar to this:

 ```
 mysql -u pantheon -p{random-password} -h dbserver.dev.{site-id}.drush.in -P {site-port} pantheon
 ```
2. From your terminal, `cd` into the directory containing your `.sql` file. Paste the connection string and append it with:
`< database.sql`
Your command will look like:

 ```
 mysql -u pantheon -p{random-password} -h dbserver.dev.{site-id}.drush.in -P {site-port} pantheon < database.sql
 ```
3. After you run the command, the `.sql` file is imported into your Pantheon Dev environment database container.

## Upload Your Files

Files refer to anything within `sites/default/files` for Drupal or `wp-content/uploads` for WordPress, which typically includes uploaded images, along with generated stylesheets, aggregated scripts, etc. For information on highly populated directories, see [Platform Considerations](/docs/platform-considerations/#highly-populated-directories).

Files are not under Git version control and are stored separately from the site's code.

You can use the Pantheon Dashboard, SFTP, or Rsync to upload your site's files.

### Import Files using the Pantheon Dashboard

1. Select the **Dev** environment.
2. Select **Database / Files**.
3. Click **Import**.
4. In the **Archive of site files** field, paste the URL of your `zip` or `tar.gz` archive, or upload a local file and click **Import**.

### Import Files using SFTP

Use an FTP client that supports SFTP, such as FileZilla. Find your Dev environment's SFTP connection info and connect with your SFTP client. Navigate to `files/` and start your file upload.

### Import Files using Rsync

Rsync is an excellent method for transferring a large number of files. After performing an initial rsync, subsequent jobs will only transfer the latest changes. This can help minimize the amount of time a site is in an unpredictable state (or offline) during the final step of migration, as it allows you to bring over only new content rather than re-copying every single file.

We recommend looking into the [Terminus Rsync Plugin](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/terminus-rsync-plugin) as a helper when doing these operations, as the number of command line arguments and specifics of directory structure make it easy for human error to impact your operation.

You can refer the to [rsync or SFTP](/docs/rsync-and-sftp/) documentation page. To sync your current directory to Pantheon:

```bash
terminus rsync . my_site.dev:files
```

When using Rsync manually, the script below is useful for dealing with transfers being interrupted due to connectivity issues. It uploads files to your Pantheon site's Dev environment. If an error occurs during transfer, it waits 180 seconds and picks up where it left off:


```bash
ENV='dev'
SITE='SITEID'

read -sp "Your Pantheon Password: " PASSWORD
if [[ -z "$PASSWORD" ]]; then
echo "Whoops, need password"
exit
fi

while [ 1 ]
do
sshpass -p "$PASSWORD" rsync --partial -rlvz --size-only --ipv4 --progress -e 'ssh -p 2222' ./files/* --temp-dir=../tmp/ $ENV.$SITE@appserver.$ENV.$SITE.drush.in:files/
if [ "$?" = "0" ] ; then
echo "rsync completed normally"
exit
else
echo "Rsync failure. Backing off and retrying..."
sleep 180
fi
done
```

You should now have all three of the major components of your site imported into Pantheon. Clear your caches on the the Pantheon Dashboard, and you are good to go! Once everything looks good, click **I've Successfully Migrated Manually**.

If something didn't work and you'd like to start over, you can cancel the site migration, delete the site, and try again. We also recommend making use of our **[Backups](/docs/backups/)** tool periodically during migration so you can restore to a known good state of your site.


## See Also
* <a href="https://pantheon.io/resources/quickstart-guide-migrating-wordpress-site" target="blank">The Quickstart Guide to Migrating a WordPress Site <span class="glyphicons glyphicons-new-window-alt"></span></a>
* [Migrate Sites to Pantheon: Guided Migration Tool](/docs/migrate)
* [Migrate Sites to Pantheon: Manual Method](/docs/migrate-manual)
* [Migrate Sites to Pantheon: Troubleshooting](/docs/migrate-troubleshooting)
* [Developing on Pantheon Directly with SFTP Mode](/docs/sftp/)
* [Starting with Git](/docs/git/)
* [Accessing MySQL Databases](/docs/mysql-access/)
* [rsync and SFTP](/docs/rsync-and-sftp/)
* [Using the Pantheon Workflow](/docs/pantheon-workflow)
