---
contenttype: [partial]
categories: [dependencies]
cms: [--]
product: [integrated-composer]
integration: [--]
tags: [--]
reviewed: ""
---

The upstream has the following directory structure:

```none:title=code/
code/
├─ .gitignore
├─ composer.json
└─ pantheon.upstream.yml
├─ README.md
└─ upstream-configuration/
   └─ composer.json
└─ web/
   └─ sites/ for Drupal
   └─ app/ for WordPress (Composer Managed) (plugins, themes, and uploads)
   └─ wp/ for WordPress (Composer Managed) (core files)
```

- `.gitignore`: Prevents [build artifacts](/guides/integrated-composer#build-and-deploy-terminology) generated by Composer from being committed to the upstream or site code repositories. Note that changing the tracking status of Composer-managed files and directories can result in build failures or lead to unexpected errors.
- `composer.json`: The two different `composer.json` files allows you to customize individual sites without inherent merge conflicts and enables one-click updates.
  - Root-level: Site-level customizations.
  - `upstream-configuration/`: Composer automatically updates `composer.json` with customizations for the upstream. Avoid manually modifying this file.
- `pantheon.upstream.yml`: The `build_step: true` directive in `pantheon.upstream.yml` enables the build step.

When a site is created, Pantheon runs `composer install`, generates a `composer.lock` file, and commits it back to the site’s code repository. To avoid potential merge conflicts after applying an upstream update, do **not** commit the `composer.lock` file from your upstream root to the upstream repository.

The `composer.lock` file should not be listed in your `.gitignore` file because it must be committed for individual sites created from your custom upstream. Use the command below to avoid accidentally committing a `composer.lock` file when working directly with your custom upstream.

       echo /composer.lock >> .git/info/exclude

The command has the same effect as ignoring the file in the top-level `.gitignore` file, except that the `exclude` file is not saved in the repository when you push changes back to the remote origin. You must re-run this command every time you make a new local clone of your upstream if you would like to protect against inadvertently committing a `composer.lock` file.

Build artifacts are stored in a Git tag like `pantheon_build_artifacts_$BRANCHNAME`, where `$BRANCHNAME` is the name of the environment or Multidev feature branch.

It is a requirement that all build artifacts should be ignored in the `.gitignore` file. Ensure you add entries to the `.gitignore` any time you modify the build to move installation files to a new locations.
